---
title: 'A New Vue on Life'
description: ''
date: 2020-03-05 22:49:01
published: true
author: 'Edmund Miller'
tags: ['Vuejs']
---

I've been wanting to redo my personal site since I tried to add my presentations
to my hugo based site and struggled. Something that looked cool. Something that
was interesting.

At first I started looking at static site generators and found a great site,
[staticgen](https://www.staticgen.com/), that lists all the possible static site
generators. I thought I wanted one written in a cool language, like a lisp or
Haskell, so I went down all the lisps first, and I realized my first real
requirement was simple CI deployment. I like GitLab CI for it's control, [zeit
now](https://zeit.co/) as a close second for it's ease, and then maybe Netlify.
The lisp family didn't have anything quick to deploy and their installation
stories were equally poor.

So I jumped to Hakyll, there's an [example](https://gitlab.com/pages/hakyll) for
GitLab Pages so I got started on that. And I thought I wanted to build it with
Nix and found a few brave souls who had ventured down that path. But I figured
I'll just try the example first, why not. The pipeline took 30 minutes to build,
because the Haskell packages had to be installed, which would be fine, if the
cache lasted longer than a week. I then realized that I didn't really want just
a static site generator, they are using these fantastic powerful programming
languages to just generate static pages, just a glorified Makefile. And I didn't
want to use someone else's theme, but I didn't want to write my own in the
generators specific formatting. It felt limiting, but I didn't want to reinvent
the wheel. I didn't like making websites. Maybe I'm just not good at design, but
I'd rather focus on the content than trying to center a div. So I thought maybe
it was just javascript.

So I tried Elm. I settled on [elm-pages](https://elm-pages.com/) , what finally
sold me over elm-static was the [introduction blog
post](https://elm-pages.com/blog/introducing-elm-pages/) and it insightful into
the JAMstack (JavaScript, APIs, and Markup). I had used
[gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/) to rewrite the [UTDallas Rugby
Page](https://www.utdallasrugby.org/) with [Tristen
Even](https://www.tristeneven.com/) so the pieces were starting to fall together
in my head about what JAMstack is about. So I got it up and running. And it sat
there because I don't elm. It looks fantastic checks all the functional buzz
word bingo card spots. But my list of things to learn is taking on more water
than I can bail out, and elm kept sinking to the bottom.

Fast forward a couple of weeks, to [ETHDenver](https://www.ethdenver.com/) and I
met Jeremy, a friend of a friend and one of the creators of
[loft.radio](https://loft.radio/), a lofi hip hop radio that you can tip the
artists in ETH. We we're chatting tech, as one does at a hackathon, and he was
raving about Vuejs, which he used to build loft. I had heard about it from
another friend and decided to checkout after I finished my weekend with react. I
had the perfect excuse to dip my toes in when I needed to build some
documentation for work, and settled on [VuePress](https://vuepress.vuejs.org/).
I think all documentation should be written in markdown, and then the site
generated to prevent vendor lock-in. It's been a great experience so far and has
a ton of features out of the box. But like Vue, it let's you walk into the
water, rather than jump into the deep end like React. Just my personal
experience.

That small brush inspired me to dust off an old side project,
[Multiverse](https://multiverse.gg/). It's my buzzword labor of love, Nextjs,
Tailwindcss, Typescript, Ava, Graphql, and Stripe. I had patched into together
like Frankenstein from several
[examples](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/tree/master/examples), but I got hung
up between Typescript and Ava and getting it to build and test those. In a
perfect storm the Vuejs documentary came out at the same time so I rewrote my
tiny progress in [Nuxtjs](https://nuxtjs.org/). I think this quote from the
Vuejs docs section comparing it to other frameworks is my experience exactly

> For many developers who have been working with HTML, templates feel more
> natural to read and write. The preference itself can be somewhat subjective,
> but if it makes the developer more productive then the benefit is objective.

I'll just cover my experience really quick. Vue definitely takes the developer
experience as a priority and that reflects on the frameworks created on top of
it. Just give `vue create hello-world` or `npx create-nuxt-app <project-name>` a
shot and you'll see the difference from the blank canvas that `creat-react-app`
gives you. From `create-nuxt-app` I just had to add the
[apollo-module](https://github.com/nuxt-community/apollo-module) and I had most
of my wish list taken care. In the past I had used
[prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) for a quick DB with Graphql on top, but I found
they had updated their docs to offer more, but I wanted something simpler.
Enter, [Hasura](https://hasura.io/), one click deploy to Heroku. A docker image
for when you want to move somewhere else. Makes thinking about the back end an
after thought. I made more progress in the past two weeks than in the past 9
months. I'm just missing Typescript and Stripe so far, and I'm assuming Stripe
will be a breeze.

Maybe I'm just not a clever enough developer for React. I love functional
programming and React Hooks are just sexy and they still nearly lure me back in.
But Vue gave me a new light on web development and programming languages. Vue
gave me a paintbrush to finally appreciate design and the joy of making a web
page come to life rather than wrangling JavaScript and never getting anywhere. I
realized what the advice a language is a tool to get a job done meant. The paint
from Vue may crack after a while, as apposed to the copper statue that Elm and
similar languages promise. While it's great, it won't matter if I never make the
statue because I can't learn metallurgy at a craft store.

## Tailwind Refactor

I also wanted to take this chance to explore
[tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/). I had exactly 0 experience with CSS
before this and fought with any React material design component I tried even get
to agree with flexbox. I had seen tailwind from [Zamansky's ClojureScript
tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CTTbC6owS0), and
[Aria's](https://github.com/ar1a) Twitter clone
[Catter](https://catter.netlify.com/). So I took rewriting the default Gridsome
as the perfect way to get accustomed to using it, without getting caught up in
the design aspects because I haven't gotten to read [Refactoring
UI](https://refactoringui.com/) yet. As of
[3e57e24661](https://github.com/Emiller88/edmundmiller.dev/tree/3e57e2466116fc260c077239d5cfdf4c0063ee40)
I completed the rewrite.

To speak on my experience with tailwind, it really made it easy to focus on what
I wanted to do, rather than how to do it. I had a friend show me webflow
recently, and I think tailwind is even simpler once you get familiar with the
utility-classes it provides. The original was a beautiful intricate work of CSS,
that I honestly had no interest in figuring out.

The one issue I did run into was the way Gridsome just returned a
`v-html="$page.post.content"` so I found the way [Gridsome Portfolio
Starter](https://gridsome.org/starters/gridsome-portfolio-starter/) handled it's
markdown and then threw some tailwind in to deal with the theme-switcher
specific stuff and ended up with
[github-markdown.css](https://github.com/Emiller88/edmundmiller.dev/blob/3e57e2466116fc260c077239d5cfdf4c0063ee40/src/assets/css/github-markdown.css)

### Theme Switcher

## Semantic Versioning

## Presentations
